Feat: add the OpenAPI document (#820)
oam-dev/kubevela.io: docs/platform-engineers/openapi/overview.md

---
title: VelaUX OpenAPI
---

> This section demo by local address, so you first prepare the VelaUX.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section is a local demo, so you should prepare VelaUX first.
```

> This section demo by local address, so you first prepare the VelaUX.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section will introduce how to integrate VelaUX OpenAPI, please make sure you have enabled the `velaux` addon. Let's use port-forward to expose the endpoint for the following demo.
```

```bash
vela port-forward addon-velaux -n vela-system 8000:80
```

## Authentication and API Example

### Login and get the token

> Before you call the OpenAPI, you should complete authentication. VelaUX OpenAPI only supports local accounts. The following example is with the default admin account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Start from v1.3, the VelaUX has introduced [Json Web Token](https://jwt.io/) for authorization. As a result, you need to call login API to complete the authentication and get the token. The following example is with the default admin account.
```

Reviewer 2: > VelaUX OpenAPI only supports local accounts. 

我们不是支持了 LDAP 了吗？

Author: LDAP 认证过程需要多次跳转，这不适合API调用的认证。

Reviewer 2: 能不能 LDAP 过来的变成本地存一份？

Author: LDAP 过来的用户信息没有密码，不能直接用账号认证。这种需求需要靠类似用户自行分配AK/SK 来处理。

Reviewer 2: ok

```bash
curl -H Content-Type:application/json -X POST -d '{"username": "admin", "password":"VelaUX12345"}' http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/auth/login
```

> `http://127.0.0.1:8000` This is demo address, you should replace it with the real address. If you changed the password, replace it with the real password.

expected output:

```json
{
 "user": {
  "createTime": "0001-01-01T00:00:00Z",
  "lastLoginTime": "0001-01-01T00:00:00Z",
  "name": "admin",
  "email": "barnett.zqg@gmail.com",
  "disabled": false
 },
 "accessToken": "eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ1c2VybmFtZSI6ImFkbWluIiwiZ3JhbnRUeXBlIjoiYWNjZXNzIiwiZXhwIjoxNjU2NTE0ODcyLCJpc3MiOiJ2ZWxhLWlzc3VlciIsIm5iZiI6MTY1NjUxMTI3Mn0.IqRWglW5cYMn8KJcbkoG55os9g-YTo_9UWFvbpZBKiY",
 "refreshToken": "eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ1c2VybmFtZSI6ImFkbWluIiwiZ3JhbnRUeXBlIjoicmVmcmVzaCIsImV4cCI6MTY1NjU5NzY3MiwiaXNzIjoidmVsYS1pc3N1ZXIiLCJuYmYiOjE2NTY1MTEyNzJ9.mUjXj1BQ2c3MaVyYnMYefgH2g8Y-swgjyCAzH-GbZu8"
}
```

* accessToken: This is the token to request other APIs.

> * refreshToken: This is the token to refresh the accessToken, which will expire in an hour.

Reviewer 2: can we configure the expire time duration? and how?

Author: Currently, this is a fixed time.

### Request other APIs

* Create an application

```bash
curl -H Content-Type:application/json -H "Authorization: Bearer <accessToken>" -X POST -d '{"name":"first-vela-app", "project": "default", "alias": "Demo App", "envBinding": [{"name": "default"}], "component": {"name":"express-server","componentType":"webservice", "properties": "{\"image\":\"oamdev/hello-world\"}"}}' http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/applications
```

> > Please replace the `<accessToken>` with the last step response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Please replace `<accessToken>` with the response from the previous step.
```

> expected output:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The expected output should be like:
```

```json
{
 "name": "first-vela-app",
 "alias": "Demo App",
 "project": {
  "name": "default",
  "alias": "Default",
  "description": "Default project is created by velaux system automatically.",
  "createTime": "2022-06-24T14:41:42.237565+08:00",
  "updateTime": "2022-06-24T14:41:42.237565+08:00",
  "owner": {
   "name": "admin",
   "alias": "Administrator"
  }
 },
 "description": "",
 "createTime": "2022-06-29T22:18:53.699216+08:00",
 "updateTime": "2022-06-29T22:18:53.699217+08:00",
 "icon": ""
}
```

* Deploy an application

```bash
curl -H Content-Type:application/json -H "Authorization: Bearer <accessToken>" -X POST -d '{"workflowName":"workflow-default","triggerType":"api"}' http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/applications/first-vela-app/deploy
```

expected output:

```json
{
 "createTime": "2022-06-29T22:24:25.735085+08:00",
 "version": "20220629222425586",
 "status": "running",
 "deployUser": {
  "name": "admin",
  "alias": "Administrator"
 },
 "note": "",
 "envName": "default",
 "triggerType": "api"
}
```

> * Query the application pod list

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Using VelaQL to Query the application pod list
```

此处 VelaQL 可以加链接，前后呼应。

```bash

> curl -X GET -H "Authorization: Bearer <accessToken>" http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/query\?velaql\=component-pod-view%7BappNs%3Ddefault,+appName%3Dfirst-vela-app%7D.status

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer <accessToken>" -G \
    "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/query" \
    --data-urlencode 'velaql=component-pod-view{appNs=default,+appName=first-vela-app}.status'
```
Just for better readability. So the user can really see what's going on in those URI-encoded strings.

Author: Great!

```

> expected output:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The expected output should be:
```

句子首字母大写，保证完整性
